https://www.onetonline.org/link/summary/29-1249.00
Surgeons, All Other

Tasks
Analyze patient's medical history, medication allergies, physical condition, and examination results to verify operation's necessity and to determine best procedure.
Conduct research to develop and test surgical techniques that can improve operating procedures and outcomes.
Consult with patient's other medical care specialists, such as cardiologist and endocrinologist, to determine if surgery is necessary.
Describe preoperative and postoperative treatments and procedures, such as sedatives, diets, antibiotics, or preparation and treatment of the patient's operative area, to parents or guardians of the patient.
Direct and coordinate activities of nurses, assistants, specialists, residents, and other medical staff.
Examine fetuses, infants, children, and adolescents, and diagnose health issues to determine need for intervention, such as surgery.
Examine instruments, equipment, and operating room to ensure sterility.
Examine patient to obtain information on medical condition and surgical risk.
Follow established surgical techniques during the operation.
Inform parents and guardians of child's health problems and surgical procedures through various channels, such as in-person and telecommunication systems.
Interpret results of preoperative tests and physical examinations.
Manage surgery services, including planning, scheduling and coordination, determination of procedures, or procurement of supplies and equipment.
Monitor patient's recovery, making follow-up visits and using postoperative assessment techniques, such as blood and imaging tests.
Operate on fetuses, infants, children, and adolescents to correct deformities, repair injuries, prevent and treat diseases, or improve or restore patients' functions.
Perform transplantation operations, such as organ transplants, on fetuses, infants, children, and adolescents.
Prepare case histories.
Provide consultation and surgical assistance to other physicians and surgeons.
Refer patient to medical specialist or other practitioners when necessary.

Software Skills
Graphics or photo imaging software — Computer imaging software
Human resources software — Human resources management system HRMS
Medical software — Electronic medical record EMR software; Epic Systems Hot Technology ; MEDITECH software Hot Technology ; Three-dimensional 3D virtual surgery software; 5 more
Operating system software — Microsoft Windows

Detailed Work Activities
Examine patients to assess general physical condition.
Operate on patients to treat conditions.
Advise medical personnel regarding healthcare issues.
Analyze patient data to determine patient needs or treatment goals.
Analyze test data or images to inform diagnosis or treatment.
Assist healthcare practitioners during surgery.
Conduct research to increase knowledge about medical issues.
Confer with family members to discuss client treatment plans or progress.
Confer with other professionals to plan patient care.
Diagnose medical conditions.
Explain medical procedures or test results to patients or family members.
Follow protocols or regulations for healthcare activities.
Manage healthcare operations.
Monitor patient progress or responses to treatments.
Order medical supplies or equipment.
Prescribe medications.
Prescribe treatments or therapies.
Record patient medical histories.
Refer patients to other healthcare practitioners or health resources.
Schedule patient procedures or appointments.
Sterilize medical equipment or instruments.
Supervise patient care personnel.