https://www.onetonline.org/link/summary/11-1011.00
Chief Executives

Tasks
Direct or coordinate an organization's financial or budget activities to fund operations, maximize investments, or increase efficiency.
Confer with board members, organization officials, or staff members to discuss issues, coordinate activities, or resolve problems.
Prepare budgets for approval, including those for funding or implementation of programs.
Direct, plan, or implement policies, objectives, or activities of organizations or businesses to ensure continuing operations, to maximize returns on investments, or to increase productivity.
Prepare or present reports concerning activities, expenses, budgets, government statutes or rulings, or other items affecting businesses or program services.
Implement corrective action plans to solve organizational or departmental problems.
Analyze operations to evaluate performance of a company or its staff in meeting objectives or to determine areas of potential cost reduction, program improvement, or policy change.
Direct or coordinate activities of businesses or departments concerned with production, pricing, sales, or distribution of products.
Direct human resources activities, including the approval of human resource plans or activities, the selection of directors or other high-level staff, or establishment or organization of major departments.
Appoint department heads or managers and assign or delegate responsibilities to them.
Interpret and explain policies, rules, regulations, or laws to organizations, government or corporate officials, or individuals.
Review reports submitted by staff members to recommend approval or to suggest changes.
Negotiate or approve contracts or agreements with suppliers, distributors, federal or state agencies, or other organizational entities.
Establish departmental responsibilities and coordinate functions among departments and sites.
Deliver speeches, write articles, or present information at meetings or conventions to promote services, exchange ideas, or accomplish objectives.
Serve as liaisons between organizations, shareholders, and outside organizations.
Coordinate the development or implementation of budgetary control systems, recordkeeping systems, or other administrative control processes.
Preside over, or serve on, boards of directors, management committees, or other governing boards.
Attend and participate in meetings of municipal councils or council committees.
Organize or approve promotional campaigns.
Nominate citizens to boards or commissions.
Conduct or direct investigations or hearings to resolve complaints or violations of laws, or testify at such hearings.
Direct or coordinate activities of businesses involved with buying or selling investment products or financial services.
Prepare bylaws approved by elected officials, and ensure that bylaws are enforced.
Make presentations to legislative or other government committees regarding policies, programs, or budgets.
Review and analyze legislation, laws, or public policy and recommend changes to promote or support interests of the general population or special groups.
Direct non-merchandising departments, such as advertising, purchasing, credit, or accounting.
Refer major policy matters to elected representatives for final decisions.
Direct or conduct studies or research on issues affecting areas of responsibility.
Administer programs for selection of sites, construction of buildings, or provision of equipment or supplies.
Represent organizations or promote their objectives at official functions, or delegate representatives to do so.

Knowledge
Administration and Management — Knowledge of business and management principles involved in strategic planning, resource allocation, human resources modeling, leadership technique, production methods, and coordination of people and resources.
Personnel and Human Resources — Knowledge of principles and procedures for personnel recruitment, selection, training, compensation and benefits, labor relations and negotiation, and personnel information systems.
Customer and Personal Service — Knowledge of principles and processes for providing customer and personal services. This includes customer needs assessment, meeting quality standards for services, and evaluation of customer satisfaction.
English Language — Knowledge of the structure and content of the English language including the meaning and spelling of words, and rules of composition and grammar.
Economics and Accounting — Knowledge of economic and accounting principles and practices, the financial markets, banking, and the analysis and reporting of financial data.
Public Safety and Security — Knowledge of relevant equipment, policies, procedures, and strategies to promote effective local, state, or national security operations for the protection of people, data, property, and institutions.
Computers and Electronics — Knowledge of circuit boards, processors, chips, electronic equipment, and computer hardware and software, including applications and programming.
Sales and Marketing — Knowledge of principles and methods for showing, promoting, and selling products or services. This includes marketing strategy and tactics, product demonstration, sales techniques, and sales control systems.
Mathematics — Knowledge of arithmetic, algebra, geometry, calculus, statistics, and their applications.
Education and Training — Knowledge of principles and methods for curriculum and training design, teaching and instruction for individuals and groups, and the measurement of training effects.
Law and Government — Knowledge of laws, legal codes, court procedures, precedents, government regulations, executive orders, agency rules, and the democratic political process.
Psychology — Knowledge of human behavior and performance; individual differences in ability, personality, and interests; learning and motivation; psychological research methods; and the assessment and treatment of behavioral and affective disorders.
Communications and Media — Knowledge of media production, communication, and dissemination techniques and methods. This includes alternative ways to inform and entertain via written, oral, and visual media.
Engineering and Technology — Knowledge of the practical application of engineering science and technology. This includes applying principles, techniques, procedures, and equipment to the design and production of various goods and services.

Software Skills
Accounting software — ComputerEase construction accounting software; Fund accounting software; Intuit QuickBooks ; Sage 50 Accounting
Analytical or scientific software — Lyris HQ Web-Analytics Solution; Nedstat Sitestat; Online advertising reporting software
Content workflow software — Atlassian JIRA
Customer relationship management CRM software — Blackbaud The Raiser's Edge; Oracle Siebel Server Sync
Data base management system software — Relational database management software
Data base reporting software — Database reporting software
Data base user interface and query software — AdSense Tracker; Databox; Microsoft Access ; Structured query language SQL
Desktop publishing software — Microsoft Publisher
Document management software — Adobe Acrobat ; Microsoft SharePoint
Electronic mail software — Email software; Listserv software; Microsoft Outlook
Enterprise application integration software — Extensible markup language XML
Enterprise resource planning ERP software — Microsoft Dynamics; Oracle E-Business Suite; Oracle PeopleSoft ; SAP software ; 2 more
Financial analysis software — Microsoft FRx
Graphics or photo imaging software — Graphic presentation software; SmugMug Flickr
Human resources software — Halogen e360; Halogen ePraisal; Human resource information system (HRIS); Infor SSA Human Capital Management
Internet browser software — Web browser software
Office suite software — Microsoft Office software
Presentation software — Mentimeter; Microsoft PowerPoint
Project management software — HCSS HeavyBid; HCSS HeavyJob; Microsoft Project
Spreadsheet software — Microsoft Excel
Time accounting software — Exact Software Macola ES Labor Performance; Norchard Solutions Succession Wizard
Web platform development software — PHP
Word processing software — Microsoft Word 

Essential Skills
Critical Thinking — Using logic and reasoning to identify the strengths and weaknesses of alternative solutions, conclusions, or approaches to problems.
Speaking — Talking to others to convey information effectively.
Reading Comprehension — Understanding written sentences and paragraphs in work-related documents.
Writing — Communicating effectively in writing as appropriate for the needs of the audience.
Active Listening — Giving full attention to what other people are saying, taking time to understand the points being made, asking questions as appropriate, and not interrupting at inappropriate times.
Monitoring — Monitoring/Assessing performance of yourself, other individuals, or organizations to make improvements or take corrective action.
Active Learning — Understanding the implications of new information for both current and future problem-solving and decision-making.
Mathematics — Using mathematics to solve problems.
Learning Strategies — Selecting and using training/instructional methods and procedures appropriate for the situation when learning or teaching new things.
back to top

Transferable Skills
Judgment and Decision Making — Considering the relative costs and benefits of potential actions to choose the most appropriate one.
Complex Problem Solving — Identifying complex problems and reviewing related information to develop and evaluate options and implement solutions.
Coordination — Adjusting actions in relation to others' actions.
Management of Financial Resources — Determining how money will be spent to get the work done, and accounting for these expenditures.
Management of Personnel Resources — Motivating, developing, and directing people as they work, identifying the best people for the job.
Systems Evaluation — Identifying measures or indicators of system performance and the actions needed to improve or correct performance, relative to the goals of the system.
Negotiation — Bringing others together and trying to reconcile differences.
Social Perceptiveness — Being aware of others' reactions and understanding why they react as they do.
Systems Analysis — Determining how a system should work and how changes in conditions, operations, and the environment will affect outcomes.
Management of Material Resources — Obtaining and seeing to the appropriate use of equipment, facilities, and materials needed to do certain work.
Persuasion — Persuading others to change their minds or behavior.
Time Management — Managing one's own time and the time of others.
Instructing — Teaching others how to do something.
Operations Analysis — Analyzing needs and product requirements to create a design.
Service Orientation — Actively looking for ways to help people.

Work Activities
Making Decisions and Solving Problems — Analyzing information and evaluating results to choose the best solution and solve problems.
Establishing and Maintaining Interpersonal Relationships — Developing constructive and cooperative working relationships with others, and maintaining them over time.
Communicating with Supervisors, Peers, or Subordinates — Providing information to supervisors, co-workers, and subordinates by telephone, in written form, e-mail, or in person.
Guiding, Directing, and Motivating Subordinates — Providing guidance and direction to subordinates, including setting performance standards and monitoring performance.
Coaching and Developing Others — Identifying the developmental needs of others and coaching, mentoring, or otherwise helping others to improve their knowledge or skills.
Developing and Building Teams — Encouraging and building mutual trust, respect, and cooperation among team members.
Communicating with People Outside the Organization — Communicating with people outside the organization, representing the organization to customers, the public, government, and other external sources. This information can be exchanged in person, in writing, or by telephone or e-mail.
Developing Objectives and Strategies — Establishing long-range objectives and specifying the strategies and actions to achieve them.
Getting Information — Observing, receiving, and otherwise obtaining information from all relevant sources.
Organizing, Planning, and Prioritizing Work — Developing specific goals and plans to prioritize, organize, and accomplish your work.
Evaluating Information to Determine Compliance with Standards — Using relevant information and individual judgment to determine whether events or processes comply with laws, regulations, or standards.
Processing Information — Compiling, coding, categorizing, calculating, tabulating, auditing, or verifying information or data.
Resolving Conflicts and Negotiating with Others — Handling complaints, settling disputes, and resolving grievances and conflicts, or otherwise negotiating with others.
Analyzing Data or Information — Identifying the underlying principles, reasons, or facts of information by breaking down information or data into separate parts.
Thinking Creatively — Developing, designing, or creating new applications, ideas, relationships, systems, or products, including artistic contributions.
Updating and Using Relevant Knowledge — Keeping up-to-date technically and applying new knowledge to your job.
Identifying Objects, Actions, and Events — Identifying information by categorizing, estimating, recognizing differences or similarities, and detecting changes in circumstances or events.
Monitoring Processes, Materials, or Surroundings — Monitoring and reviewing information from materials, events, or the environment, to detect or assess problems.
Judging the Qualities of Objects, Services, or People — Assessing the value, importance, or quality of things or people.
Interpreting the Meaning of Information for Others — Translating or explaining what information means and how it can be used.
Working with Computers — Using computers and computer systems (including hardware and software) to program, write software, set up functions, enter data, or process information.
Coordinating the Work and Activities of Others — Getting members of a group to work together to accomplish tasks.
Monitoring and Controlling Resources — Monitoring and controlling resources and overseeing the spending of money.
Performing Administrative Activities — Performing day-to-day administrative tasks such as maintaining information files and processing paperwork.
Training and Teaching Others — Identifying the educational needs of others, developing formal educational or training programs or classes, and teaching or instructing others.
Providing Consultation and Advice to Others — Providing guidance and expert advice to management or other groups on technical, systems-, or process-related topics.
Performing for or Working Directly with the Public — Performing for people or dealing directly with the public. This includes serving customers in restaurants and stores, and receiving clients or guests.
Scheduling Work and Activities — Scheduling events, programs, and activities, as well as the work of others.
Selling or Influencing Others — Convincing others to buy merchandise/goods or to otherwise change their minds or actions.
Staffing Organizational Units — Recruiting, interviewing, selecting, hiring, and promoting employees in an organization.
Documenting/Recording Information — Entering, transcribing, recording, storing, or maintaining information in written or electronic/magnetic form.
Assisting and Caring for Others — Providing personal assistance, medical attention, emotional support, or other personal care to others such as coworkers, customers, or patients.
Estimating the Quantifiable Characteristics of Products, Events, or Information — Estimating sizes, distances, and quantities; or determining time, costs, resources, or materials needed to perform a work activity.

Detailed Work Activities
Direct financial operations.
Confer with organizational members to accomplish work activities.
Prepare operational budgets.
Direct organizational operations, projects, or services.
Develop organizational policies or programs.
Implement organizational process or policy changes.
Prepare financial documents, reports, or budgets.
Prepare operational progress or status reports.
Resolve employee or contractor problems.
Direct sales, marketing, or customer service activities.
Analyze data to assess operational or project effectiveness.
Manage human resources activities.
Analyze data to inform operational decisions or activities.
Communicate organizational policies and procedures.
Negotiate contracts for transportation, distribution, or logistics services.
Prepare staff schedules or work assignments.
Select staff, team members, or performers.
Liaise between departments or other groups to improve function or communication.
Establish organizational guidelines or policies.
Conduct hearings to investigate legal issues.
Testify at legal or legislative proceedings.
Present information to the public.
Draft legislation or regulations.
Serve on institutional or departmental committees.
Advise others on legal or regulatory compliance matters.
Analyze impact of legal or regulatory changes.
Coordinate with external parties to exchange information.
Direct administrative or support services.
Recommend organizational process or policy changes.
Conduct research on social issues.
Conduct research to gain information about products or processes.
Represent the organization in external relations.
Coordinate special events or programs.
Manage construction activities.
Promote products, services, or programs.