https://www.onetonline.org/link/summary/15-1252.00
Software Developers

Tasks
Analyze user needs and software requirements to determine feasibility of design within time and cost constraints.
Develop or direct software system testing or validation procedures, programming, or documentation.
Confer with systems analysts, engineers, programmers and others to design systems and to obtain information on project limitations and capabilities, performance requirements and interfaces.
Modify existing software to correct errors, adapt it to new hardware, or upgrade interfaces and improve performance.
Prepare reports or correspondence concerning project specifications, activities, or status.
Analyze information to determine, recommend, and plan installation of a new system or modification of an existing system.
Store, retrieve, and manipulate data for analysis of system capabilities and requirements.
Design, develop and modify software systems, using scientific analysis and mathematical models to predict and measure outcomes and consequences of design.
Determine system performance standards.
Consult with customers or other departments on project status, proposals, or technical issues, such as software system design or maintenance.
Confer with data processing or project managers to obtain information on limitations or capabilities for data processing projects.
Monitor functioning of equipment to ensure system operates in conformance with specifications.
Coordinate installation of software system.
Supervise the work of programmers, technologists and technicians and other engineering and scientific personnel.
Supervise and assign work to programmers, designers, technologists, technicians, or other engineering or scientific personnel.
Obtain and evaluate information on factors such as reporting formats required, costs, or security needs to determine hardware configuration.
Train users to use new or modified equipment.

Knowledge
Computers and Electronics — Knowledge of circuit boards, processors, chips, electronic equipment, and computer hardware and software, including applications and programming.
Customer and Personal Service — Knowledge of principles and processes for providing customer and personal services. This includes customer needs assessment, meeting quality standards for services, and evaluation of customer satisfaction.
Mathematics — Knowledge of arithmetic, algebra, geometry, calculus, statistics, and their applications.
English Language — Knowledge of the structure and content of the English language including the meaning and spelling of words, and rules of composition and grammar.

Software Skills
Access software — Citrix cloud computing software; PuTTY
Administration software — Software distribution management software
Analytical or scientific software — IBM SPSS Statistics ; SAS ; TensorFlow ; The MathWorks MATLAB ; 6 more
Application server software — Atlassian Bitbucket ; GitLab ; Red Hat OpenShift ; Spring Boot ; 7 more
Authentication server software — Single sign-on SSO
Backup or archival software — Backup and archival software; Veritas NetBackup
Business intelligence and data analysis software — Alteryx software ; Google Looker Analytics ; Microsoft Power BI ; Tableau ; 4 more
Cloud-based data access and sharing software — Dropbox; Google Drive; Platform as a service PaaS; Slack
Cloud-based management software — Amazon Web Services AWS CloudFormation ; IBM WebSphere MQ ; Oracle Cloud software ; Splunk Enterprise ; 2 more
Clustering software — VMware
Communications server software — IBM Domino
Computer based training software — Moodle
Configuration management software — Chef ; IBM Terraform ; Perforce Helix software; Puppet ; 6 more
Content workflow software — Atlassian JIRA ; Emerald Software Group Emerald Green Office
Customer relationship management CRM software — Blackbaud The Raiser's Edge; Oracle Eloqua; Salesforce software
Data base management system software — Amazon DynamoDB ; Oracle Database ; Oracle PL/SQL ; Redis ; 21 more
Data base reporting software — Microsoft SQL Server Reporting Services SSRS ; Oracle Business Intelligence Discoverer; SAP Business Intelligence; SAP Crystal Reports; 3 more
Data base user interface and query software — Airtable; Blackboard software; GraphQL ; Prometheus ; 16 more
Data mining software — Google Analytics ; Snowflake
Desktop communications software — Skype
Desktop publishing software — Adobe InDesign ; Microsoft Publisher
Development environment software — Apache Kafka ; Apache Maven ; Oracle Java 2 Platform Enterprise Edition J2EE ; Oracle SQL Developer ; 62 more
Device drivers or system software — Microsoft DirectX
Document management software — Adobe Acrobat ; Document management system software; Microsoft SharePoint
Electronic mail software — Google Gmail; IBM Notes; Microsoft Exchange; Microsoft Outlook
Enterprise application integration software — Jenkins CI ; Microsoft Power Automate ; Microsoft Power Platform software ; Microsoft SQL Server Integration Services SSIS ; 7 more
Enterprise resource planning ERP software — Oracle PeopleSoft ; SAP ERP ; SAP software ; Workday software ; 9 more
Enterprise system management software — IBM Power Systems software
Expert system software — Ansible software
File versioning software — Apache Subversion SVN ; Git ; Version control software
Filesystem software — File server software
Financial analysis software — Delphi Technology; Oracle E-Business Suite Financials
Graphical user interface development software — Figma ; Grafana Labs Grafana Cloud ; Graphical user interface GUI builder software; Salesforce Visualforce; 1 more
Graphics or photo imaging software — Adobe Creative Cloud software ; Adobe Illustrator ; JamBoard; Trimble SketchUp Pro ; 4 more
Information retrieval or search software — Apache Avro; LexisNexis
Instant messaging software — Blink; GroupMe
Internet directory services software — Microsoft Active Directory
Internet protocol IP multimedia subsystem software — Voice over internet protocol VoIP system software
Map creation software — ESRI ArcGIS software
Metadata management software — Informatica software ; Quest Erwin Data Modeler; Talend Data Fabric
Network conferencing software — LogMeIn GoToWebinar
Network monitoring software — Nagios; Wireshark
Network operation system software — IBM z/OS operating systems
Network security and virtual private network VPN equipment software — Firewall software; Virtual private networking VPN software
Object or component oriented development software — Apache Spark ; jQuery ; Scala ; TypeScript ; 34 more
Object oriented data base management software — Hibernate ORM ; PostgreSQL
Office suite software — LibreOffice; Microsoft Office software
Operating system software — Apple iOS ; Google Android ; Microsoft Windows Server ; UNIX Shell ; 21 more
Platform interconnectivity software — Migration software
Portal server software — Apache HTTP Server
Presentation software — Google Slides; Microsoft PowerPoint
Procedure management software — Apache Airflow
Process mapping and design software — Microsoft Visio
Program testing software — Hewlett Packard LoadRunner; JUnit ; Selenium ; SonarQube; 21 more
Project management software — Atlassian Confluence ; Microsoft Team Foundation Server ; Microsoft Teams ; Oracle Primavera Enterprise Project Portfolio Management ; 1 more
Requirements analysis and system architecture software — IBM Rational RequisitePro; Requirements management software; Unified modeling language UML
Sales and marketing software — Marketo Marketing Automation
Spreadsheet software — Google Sheets ; Microsoft Excel
Storage networking software — Amazon Simple Storage Service S3; Storage area network SAN software
Switch or router software — Border Gateway Protocol BGP
Transaction security and virus protection software — Encryption software; McAfee; NortonLifeLock cybersecurity software
Transaction server software — Customer information control system CICS; IBM Middleware; Microsoft Internet Information Services (IIS); Object Management Group Object Request Broker; 1 more
Video conferencing software — Cisco Webex ; Google Meet; LogMeIn GoToMeeting; Zoom ; 1 more
Video creation and editing software — Adobe After Effects ; Flipgrid; Screencastify; YouTube; 1 more
Web page creation and editing software — Adobe Dreamweaver; Google Sites; Social media sites; WordPress ; 1 more
Web platform development software — Bootstrap ; React ; Spring Framework ; Vue.js ; 31 more
Word processing software — 3M Post-it App; Google Docs ; Microsoft OneNote; Microsoft Word 

Essential Skills
Critical Thinking — Using logic and reasoning to identify the strengths and weaknesses of alternative solutions, conclusions, or approaches to problems.
Active Learning — Understanding the implications of new information for both current and future problem-solving and decision-making.
Reading Comprehension — Understanding written sentences and paragraphs in work-related documents.
Active Listening — Giving full attention to what other people are saying, taking time to understand the points being made, asking questions as appropriate, and not interrupting at inappropriate times.
Writing — Communicating effectively in writing as appropriate for the needs of the audience.
Speaking — Talking to others to convey information effectively.
Monitoring — Monitoring/Assessing performance of yourself, other individuals, or organizations to make improvements or take corrective action.

Transferable Skills
Programming — Writing computer programs for various purposes.
Judgment and Decision Making — Considering the relative costs and benefits of potential actions to choose the most appropriate one.
Systems Analysis — Determining how a system should work and how changes in conditions, operations, and the environment will affect outcomes.
Complex Problem Solving — Identifying complex problems and reviewing related information to develop and evaluate options and implement solutions.
Systems Evaluation — Identifying measures or indicators of system performance and the actions needed to improve or correct performance, relative to the goals of the system.
Technology Design — Generating or adapting equipment and technology to serve user needs.
Operations Analysis — Analyzing needs and product requirements to create a design.
Time Management — Managing one's own time and the time of others.
Coordination — Adjusting actions in relation to others' actions.

Work Activities
Working with Computers — Using computers and computer systems (including hardware and software) to program, write software, set up functions, enter data, or process information.
Processing Information — Compiling, coding, categorizing, calculating, tabulating, auditing, or verifying information or data.
Making Decisions and Solving Problems — Analyzing information and evaluating results to choose the best solution and solve problems.
Thinking Creatively — Developing, designing, or creating new applications, ideas, relationships, systems, or products, including artistic contributions.
Communicating with Supervisors, Peers, or Subordinates — Providing information to supervisors, co-workers, and subordinates by telephone, in written form, e-mail, or in person.
Analyzing Data or Information — Identifying the underlying principles, reasons, or facts of information by breaking down information or data into separate parts.
Updating and Using Relevant Knowledge — Keeping up-to-date technically and applying new knowledge to your job.
Organizing, Planning, and Prioritizing Work — Developing specific goals and plans to prioritize, organize, and accomplish your work.
Getting Information — Observing, receiving, and otherwise obtaining information from all relevant sources.
Evaluating Information to Determine Compliance with Standards — Using relevant information and individual judgment to determine whether events or processes comply with laws, regulations, or standards.
Documenting/Recording Information — Entering, transcribing, recording, storing, or maintaining information in written or electronic/magnetic form.
Developing Objectives and Strategies — Establishing long-range objectives and specifying the strategies and actions to achieve them.
Monitoring Processes, Materials, or Surroundings — Monitoring and reviewing information from materials, events, or the environment, to detect or assess problems.
Identifying Objects, Actions, and Events — Identifying information by categorizing, estimating, recognizing differences or similarities, and detecting changes in circumstances or events.
Interpreting the Meaning of Information for Others — Translating or explaining what information means and how it can be used.
Establishing and Maintaining Interpersonal Relationships — Developing constructive and cooperative working relationships with others, and maintaining them over time.
Scheduling Work and Activities — Scheduling events, programs, and activities, as well as the work of others.
Providing Consultation and Advice to Others — Providing guidance and expert advice to management or other groups on technical, systems-, or process-related topics.

Detailed Work Activities
Monitor computer system performance to ensure proper operation.
Analyze project data to determine specifications or requirements.
Develop testing routines or procedures.
Manage information technology projects or system activities.
Modify software programs to improve performance.
Collaborate with others to determine design specifications or details.
Coordinate software or hardware installation.
Communicate project information to others.
Assess database performance.
Prepare data for analysis.
Apply mathematical principles or statistical approaches to solve problems in scientific or applied fields.
Design software applications.
Supervise information technology personnel.
Develop performance metrics or standards related to information technology.
Provide technical support for software maintenance or use.
Collaborate with others to resolve information technology issues.
Assign duties or work schedules to employees.
Teach others to use computer equipment or hardware.