https://www.onetonline.org/link/summary/25-2011.00
Preschool Teachers, Except Special Education

Tasks
Teach basic skills, such as color, shape, number and letter recognition, personal hygiene, and social skills.
Establish and enforce rules for behavior and procedures for maintaining order.
Adapt teaching methods and instructional materials to meet students' varying needs and interests.
Provide a variety of materials and resources for children to explore, manipulate, and use, both in learning activities and in imaginative play.
Serve meals and snacks in accordance with nutritional guidelines.
Attend to children's basic needs by feeding them, dressing them, and changing their diapers.
Meet with parents and guardians to discuss their children's progress and needs, determine their priorities for their children, and suggest ways that they can promote learning and development.
Organize and lead activities designed to promote physical, mental, and social development, such as games, arts and crafts, music, storytelling, and field trips.
Identify children showing signs of emotional, developmental, or health-related problems and discuss them with supervisors, parents or guardians, and child development specialists.
Maintain accurate and complete student records as required by laws, district policies, and administrative regulations.
Assimilate arriving children to the school environment by greeting them, helping them remove outerwear, and selecting activities of interest to them.
Observe and evaluate children's performance, behavior, social development, and physical health.
Prepare materials and classrooms for class activities.
Read books to entire classes or to small groups.
Establish clear objectives for all lessons, units, and projects and communicate those objectives to children.
Arrange indoor and outdoor space to facilitate creative play, motor-skill activities, and safety.
Teach proper eating habits and personal hygiene.
Demonstrate activities to children.
Plan and conduct activities for a balanced program of instruction, demonstration, and work time that provides students with opportunities to observe, question, and investigate.
Enforce all administration policies and rules governing students.
Prepare and implement remedial programs for students requiring extra help.
Confer with other staff members to plan and schedule lessons promoting learning, following approved curricula.
Attend professional meetings, educational conferences, and teacher training workshops to maintain and improve professional competence.
Organize and label materials and display students' work in a manner appropriate for their ages and perceptual skills.
Prepare reports on students and activities as required by administration.
Collaborate with other teachers and administrators in the development, evaluation, and revision of preschool programs.
Plan and supervise class projects, field trips, visits by guests, or other experiential activities and guide students in learning from those activities.
Meet with other professionals to discuss individual students' needs and progress.
Select, store, order, issue, and inventory classroom equipment, materials, and supplies.
Supervise, evaluate, and plan assignments for teacher assistants and volunteers.
Administer tests to help determine children's developmental levels, needs, and potential.
Attend staff meetings and serve on committees as required.
Provide students with disabilities with assistive devices, supportive technology, and assistance accessing facilities, such as restrooms.
Perform administrative duties, such as hall and cafeteria monitoring and bus loading and unloading.

Knowledge
Education and Training — Knowledge of principles and methods for curriculum and training design, teaching and instruction for individuals and groups, and the measurement of training effects.
English Language — Knowledge of the structure and content of the English language including the meaning and spelling of words, and rules of composition and grammar.
Public Safety and Security — Knowledge of relevant equipment, policies, procedures, and strategies to promote effective local, state, or national security operations for the protection of people, data, property, and institutions.
Customer and Personal Service — Knowledge of principles and processes for providing customer and personal services. This includes customer needs assessment, meeting quality standards for services, and evaluation of customer satisfaction.
Psychology — Knowledge of human behavior and performance; individual differences in ability, personality, and interests; learning and motivation; psychological research methods; and the assessment and treatment of behavioral and affective disorders.

Software Skills
Computer based training software — Common Curriculum; EasyCBM; Padlet; Schoology; 2 more
Desktop communications software — Bloomz; ClassDojo; Edmodo; Tadpoles
Electronic mail software — Email software
Mobile messaging service software — Intrado SchoolMessenger
Multi-media educational software — Nearpod; Seesaw
Office suite software — Microsoft Office software Hot Technology
Project management software — Google Classroom
Spreadsheet software — Microsoft Excel Hot Technology
Video conferencing software — Google Meet
Video creation and editing software — Flipgrid
Word processing software — Microsoft Word

Essential Skills
Speaking — Talking to others to convey information effectively.
Active Listening — Giving full attention to what other people are saying, taking time to understand the points being made, asking questions as appropriate, and not interrupting at inappropriate times.
Learning Strategies — Selecting and using training/instructional methods and procedures appropriate for the situation when learning or teaching new things.
Critical Thinking — Using logic and reasoning to identify the strengths and weaknesses of alternative solutions, conclusions, or approaches to problems.
Monitoring — Monitoring/Assessing performance of yourself, other individuals, or organizations to make improvements or take corrective action.
Reading Comprehension — Understanding written sentences and paragraphs in work-related documents.
Active Learning — Understanding the implications of new information for both current and future problem-solving and decision-making.
Writing — Communicating effectively in writing as appropriate for the needs of the audience.

Transferable Skills
Instructing — Teaching others how to do something.
Coordination — Adjusting actions in relation to others' actions.
Social Perceptiveness — Being aware of others' reactions and understanding why they react as they do.
Service Orientation — Actively looking for ways to help people.
Judgment and Decision Making — Considering the relative costs and benefits of potential actions to choose the most appropriate one.
Complex Problem Solving — Identifying complex problems and reviewing related information to develop and evaluate options and implement solutions.
Persuasion — Persuading others to change their minds or behavior.
Time Management — Managing one's own time and the time of others.

Work Activities
Assisting and Caring for Others — Providing personal assistance, medical attention, emotional support, or other personal care to others such as coworkers, customers, or patients.
Establishing and Maintaining Interpersonal Relationships — Developing constructive and cooperative working relationships with others, and maintaining them over time.
Getting Information — Observing, receiving, and otherwise obtaining information from all relevant sources.
Training and Teaching Others — Identifying the educational needs of others, developing formal educational or training programs or classes, and teaching or instructing others.
Thinking Creatively — Developing, designing, or creating new applications, ideas, relationships, systems, or products, including artistic contributions.
Developing and Building Teams — Encouraging and building mutual trust, respect, and cooperation among team members.
Communicating with Supervisors, Peers, or Subordinates — Providing information to supervisors, co-workers, and subordinates by telephone, in written form, e-mail, or in person.
Identifying Objects, Actions, and Events — Identifying information by categorizing, estimating, recognizing differences or similarities, and detecting changes in circumstances or events.
Making Decisions and Solving Problems — Analyzing information and evaluating results to choose the best solution and solve problems.
Resolving Conflicts and Negotiating with Others — Handling complaints, settling disputes, and resolving grievances and conflicts, or otherwise negotiating with others.
Organizing, Planning, and Prioritizing Work — Developing specific goals and plans to prioritize, organize, and accomplish your work.
Evaluating Information to Determine Compliance with Standards — Using relevant information and individual judgment to determine whether events or processes comply with laws, regulations, or standards.
Monitoring Processes, Materials, or Surroundings — Monitoring and reviewing information from materials, events, or the environment, to detect or assess problems.
Performing General Physical Activities — Performing general physical activities includes doing activities that require considerable use of your arms and legs and moving your whole body, such as climbing, lifting, balancing, walking, stooping, and handling materials.
Developing Objectives and Strategies — Establishing long-range objectives and specifying the strategies and actions to achieve them.
Scheduling Work and Activities — Scheduling events, programs, and activities, as well as the work of others.
Coaching and Developing Others — Identifying the developmental needs of others and coaching, mentoring, or otherwise helping others to improve their knowledge or skills.
Documenting/Recording Information — Entering, transcribing, recording, storing, or maintaining information in written or electronic/magnetic form.

Detailed Work Activities
Teach life skills.
Provide for basic needs of children.
Set up classroom materials or equipment.
Establish rules or policies governing student behavior.
Modify teaching methods or materials to accommodate student needs.
Discuss student progress with parents or guardians.
Discuss problems or issues with supervisors.
Monitor student behavior, social development, or health.
Plan educational activities.
Evaluate student work.
Maintain student records.
Monitor student performance.
Read to students.
Develop instructional objectives.
Apply multiple teaching methods.
Arrange childcare or educational settings to ensure physical safety of children.
Enforce rules or policies governing student behavior.
Develop strategies or programs for students with special needs.
Collaborate with other teaching professionals to develop educational programs.
Attend training sessions or professional meetings to develop or maintain professional knowledge.
Assist students with special educational needs.
Display student work.
Prepare reports detailing student activities or performance.
Plan experiential learning activities.
Supervise school or student activities.
Distribute instructional or library materials.
Evaluate performance of educational staff.
Maintain inventories of materials, equipment, or products.
Order instructional or library materials or equipment.
Supervise student research or internship work.
Administer tests to assess educational needs or progress.
Serve on institutional or departmental committees.