https://www.onetonline.org/link/summary/21-1013.00
Marriage and Family Therapists

Tasks
Encourage individuals and family members to develop and use skills and strategies for confronting their problems in a constructive manner.
Ask questions that will help clients identify their feelings and behaviors.
Develop and implement individualized treatment plans addressing family relationship problems, destructive patterns of behavior, and other personal issues.
Maintain case files that include activities, progress notes, evaluations, and recommendations.
Counsel clients on concerns, such as unsatisfactory relationships, divorce and separation, child rearing, home management, or financial difficulties.
Collect information about clients, using techniques such as testing, interviewing, discussion, or observation.
Confer with clients to develop plans for posttreatment activities.
Confer with other counselors, doctors, and professionals to analyze individual cases and to coordinate counseling services.
Determine whether clients should be counseled or referred to other specialists in such fields as medicine, psychiatry, or legal aid.
Provide instructions to clients on how to obtain help with legal, financial, and other personal issues.
Provide public education and consultation to other professionals or groups regarding counseling services, issues, and methods.
Follow up on results of counseling programs and clients' adjustments to determine effectiveness of programs.
Supervise other counselors, social service staff, and assistants.
Gather information from doctors, schools, social workers, juvenile counselors, law enforcement personnel, and others to make recommendations to courts for resolution of child custody or visitation disputes.
Write evaluations of parents and children for use by courts deciding divorce and custody cases, testifying in court if necessary.
Diagnose mental and emotional disorders in clients.

Knowledge
Therapy and Counseling — Knowledge of principles, methods, and procedures for diagnosis, treatment, and rehabilitation of physical and mental dysfunctions, and for career counseling and guidance.
Psychology — Knowledge of human behavior and performance; individual differences in ability, personality, and interests; learning and motivation; psychological research methods; and the assessment and treatment of behavioral and affective disorders.
Customer and Personal Service — Knowledge of principles and processes for providing customer and personal services. This includes customer needs assessment, meeting quality standards for services, and evaluation of customer satisfaction.
Sociology and Anthropology — Knowledge of group behavior and dynamics, societal trends and influences, human migrations, ethnicity, cultures, and their history and origins.
English Language — Knowledge of the structure and content of the English language including the meaning and spelling of words, and rules of composition and grammar.
Administrative — Knowledge of administrative and office procedures and systems such as word processing, managing files and records, stenography and transcription, designing forms, and workplace terminology.
Law and Government — Knowledge of laws, legal codes, court procedures, precedents, government regulations, executive orders, agency rules, and the democratic political process.
Philosophy and Theology — Knowledge of different philosophical systems and religions. This includes their basic principles, values, ethics, ways of thinking, customs, practices, and their impact on human culture.

Software Skills
Accounting software — Intuit QuickBooks
Billing and invoicing software — American Medical Billing Software PMA; EZ2Bill Confidant; EZClaim medical billing software
Data base user interface and query software — Microsoft Access
Electronic mail software — Microsoft Outlook
Internet browser software — Web browser software
Medical software — Advantage Software Psych Advantage; eMDs Medisoft; SumTime Software SumTime; Synergistic Office Solutions SOS Case Manager; 13 more
Office suite software — Microsoft Office software
Presentation software — Microsoft PowerPoint
Project management software — Microsoft Teams
Spreadsheet software — Microsoft Excel
Video conferencing software — Google Meet In Demand ; Zoom
Web platform development software — Hypertext preprocessor PHP
Word processing software — Microsoft Word

Essential Skills
Active Listening — Giving full attention to what other people are saying, taking time to understand the points being made, asking questions as appropriate, and not interrupting at inappropriate times.
Speaking — Talking to others to convey information effectively.
Reading Comprehension — Understanding written sentences and paragraphs in work-related documents.
Writing — Communicating effectively in writing as appropriate for the needs of the audience.
Critical Thinking — Using logic and reasoning to identify the strengths and weaknesses of alternative solutions, conclusions, or approaches to problems.
Active Learning — Understanding the implications of new information for both current and future problem-solving and decision-making.
Monitoring — Monitoring/Assessing performance of yourself, other individuals, or organizations to make improvements or take corrective action.
Learning Strategies — Selecting and using training/instructional methods and procedures appropriate for the situation when learning or teaching new things.

Transferable Skills
Social Perceptiveness — Being aware of others' reactions and understanding why they react as they do.
Complex Problem Solving — Identifying complex problems and reviewing related information to develop and evaluate options and implement solutions.
Judgment and Decision Making — Considering the relative costs and benefits of potential actions to choose the most appropriate one.
Service Orientation — Actively looking for ways to help people.
Negotiation — Bringing others together and trying to reconcile differences.
Persuasion — Persuading others to change their minds or behavior.
Coordination — Adjusting actions in relation to others' actions.
Instructing — Teaching others how to do something.
Systems Evaluation — Identifying measures or indicators of system performance and the actions needed to improve or correct performance, relative to the goals of the system.
Systems Analysis — Determining how a system should work and how changes in conditions, operations, and the environment will affect outcomes.
Time Management — Managing one's own time and the time of others.
Management of Personnel Resources — Motivating, developing, and directing people as they work, identifying the best people for the job.

Work Activities
Documenting/Recording Information — Entering, transcribing, recording, storing, or maintaining information in written or electronic/magnetic form.
Making Decisions and Solving Problems — Analyzing information and evaluating results to choose the best solution and solve problems.
Assisting and Caring for Others — Providing personal assistance, medical attention, emotional support, or other personal care to others such as coworkers, customers, or patients.
Getting Information — Observing, receiving, and otherwise obtaining information from all relevant sources.
Establishing and Maintaining Interpersonal Relationships — Developing constructive and cooperative working relationships with others, and maintaining them over time.
Communicating with Supervisors, Peers, or Subordinates — Providing information to supervisors, co-workers, and subordinates by telephone, in written form, e-mail, or in person.
Resolving Conflicts and Negotiating with Others — Handling complaints, settling disputes, and resolving grievances and conflicts, or otherwise negotiating with others.
Organizing, Planning, and Prioritizing Work — Developing specific goals and plans to prioritize, organize, and accomplish your work.
Updating and Using Relevant Knowledge — Keeping up-to-date technically and applying new knowledge to your job.
Identifying Objects, Actions, and Events — Identifying information by categorizing, estimating, recognizing differences or similarities, and detecting changes in circumstances or events.
Working with Computers — Using computers and computer systems (including hardware and software) to program, write software, set up functions, enter data, or process information.
Evaluating Information to Determine Compliance with Standards — Using relevant information and individual judgment to determine whether events or processes comply with laws, regulations, or standards.
Developing Objectives and Strategies — Establishing long-range objectives and specifying the strategies and actions to achieve them.
Communicating with People Outside the Organization — Communicating with people outside the organization, representing the organization to customers, the public, government, and other external sources. This information can be exchanged in person, in writing, or by telephone or e-mail.
Coaching and Developing Others — Identifying the developmental needs of others and coaching, mentoring, or otherwise helping others to improve their knowledge or skills.
Judging the Qualities of Objects, Services, or People — Assessing the value, importance, or quality of things or people.
Performing for or Working Directly with the Public — Performing for people or dealing directly with the public. This includes serving customers in restaurants and stores, and receiving clients or guests.
Interpreting the Meaning of Information for Others — Translating or explaining what information means and how it can be used.
Thinking Creatively — Developing, designing, or creating new applications, ideas, relationships, systems, or products, including artistic contributions.
Performing Administrative Activities — Performing day-to-day administrative tasks such as maintaining information files and processing paperwork.
Scheduling Work and Activities — Scheduling events, programs, and activities, as well as the work of others.
Analyzing Data or Information — Identifying the underlying principles, reasons, or facts of information by breaking down information or data into separate parts.
Providing Consultation and Advice to Others — Providing guidance and expert advice to management or other groups on technical, systems-, or process-related topics.

Detailed Work Activities
Counsel clients or patients regarding personal issues.
Teach life skills or strategies to clients or their families.
Develop treatment plans for patients or clients.
Maintain client records.
Collect information about clients.
Counsel clients regarding interpersonal issues.
Interview clients to gather information about their backgrounds, needs, or progress.
Confer with clients to discuss treatment plans or progress.
Collaborate with other professionals to assess client needs or plan treatments.
Evaluate characteristics of individuals to determine needs or eligibility.
Refer clients to community or social service programs.
Evaluate the effectiveness of counseling or educational programs.
Monitor clients to evaluate treatment progress.
Supervise workers providing client or patient services.
Advise others on social or educational issues.
Help clients get needed services or resources.
Lead classes or community events.
Present social services program information to the public.
Write reports or evaluations.